# SOCIAL MEDIA ANALYSIS AND NETFLIX SHOW RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM USING NLP AND DEEP LEARNING

Recommendation systems are one of the most popular intelligent systems which enable users to discover new and relevant products as per their interest. Traditional approaches such as collaborative filtering and content-based recommender systems have gained popularity over the years. In this project, we propose a deep neural network-based user-item collaborative filtering recommendation system of Netflix shows for twitter users. This is built using sentiment analysis of tweets about Netflix shows and movies. Twitter data is collected using REST API in python and NLP techniques are performed to extract show names. The proposed approach is build solely using implicit feedback of the user and thereby its purely based on user’s social media interaction. Deep learning MLP model produced promising results with decent accuracy and low error rates.

# INTRODUCTION

In today’s world recommendation system have become integral part of our day-to-day life. We will be provided with n number of results if we are searching for anything online. This massive amount of information is a little overwhelming for the users. Recommender systems provide relevant suggestions to users based on their history of searches or by finding similarity with the history of users with the item they are looking for. Hence recommender systems are used largely by retail industries, service providers as well as entertainment industries and help their users to make decisions much faster.
Twitter is one of the largest microblogging and social networking service where registered users interact via tweets, retweets, likes etc. Users express their interest on different topics via tweets and hence they are excellent source to understand people’s opinion, likes and dislikes. Even though the number of twitter users are not as big as many other mainstream applications such as YouTube or WhatsApp, we can get a lot of opinions, mentions and hashtags about topics which provides a clear understanding about the user’s stand. Moreover, the textual data can be analysed and processed to interpret the underlying sentiment and hence emotions can be classified into positive, negative, and neutral. We leveraged this aspect and attempted to build a recommendation system unlike the conventional systems which uses user ratings to understand the user-item interactions.
In this project, we focus mainly on building a Netflix show recommendation system based on twitter user interests about different shows which they expressed through tweets. Deep learning and NLP (Natural Language Processing) have had immense impact on wide variety of services recently and we made use of these machine learning techniques to perform sentiment analysis of tweets and provide recommendations based on sentiment score.

